Day -2 : Request & Response cycle




Task : 
 
1. List 5 difference between Browser JS(console) v Nodejs watch & summary 5 points - 
-> Both the browser and Node.js use JavaScript as their programming language.Differencec are as follows


i. Execcution :
         
 NodeJS - is a cross-platform and opensource Javascript runtime environment that allows the 
          javascript to be run on your local machine.




 Browser JS - is scripting language which runs on sandbox in browser with very limited access 
                   to local computer's resources.




ii. System Access :
         
 NodeJS - it is mostly used at server side , full accesss of local system.




 Browser JS - it is basically used on the client-side on browser sabdbox, limited system 
              access. 
              
              
              




iii. Developement :
         
 NodeJS - is used in server side development. 




 Browser JS - is used in frontend development.




iv.Global  :
         
 NodeJS - in server-side JS we have the global object. This is the most publicly/globally 
          accessible object in node.js. 




 Browser JS - in browser-side JS we have the window object. This is the upmost parent object in 
              front-end/client-side JS.


v.Location  :
         
 NodeJS - here, "location" object is related to a particular url; that means it is for page 
          specific.




 Browser JS - here ,  "location" is another predefined object in browsers, that has all the 
              information about the url we have loaded.




2.Execute the below code and write your description in txt file


typeof(1)                        -> number 
typeof(1.1)                        -> number 
typeof('1.1')                -> string
typeof(true)                -> boolean 
typeof(null)                -> object
typeof(undefined)        -> undefined
typeof([])                        -> object
typeof({})                        -> object 
typeof(NaN)                        -> number


Task Difference between document and window objects

Window Object :
The Window object is the top level object in JavaScript, and contains in itself several other objects, such as "document", "history" etc.
The window object represents an open window in a browser.
If a document contain frames (<iframe> tags), the browser creates one window object for the HTML document, and one additional window object for each frame.

Document Object in Javascript:

When an HTML document is loaded into a web browser, it becomes a document object.
The document object is the root node of the HTML document and the "owner" of all other nodes :( element nodes, text nodes, attribute nodes, and comment nodes).
The document object provides properties and methods to access all node objects, from within JavaScript.
The document is a part of the Window object and can be accessed as window.document.
